<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>Appendix to Chapter VI</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="backmatter z3998:non-fiction">
		<section id="appendix-6" epub:type="appendix">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Appendix to Chapter <span epub:type="z3998:roman">VI</span></h2>
			<section id="appendix-6-1" epub:type="z3998:subchapter">
				<hgroup>
					<h3 epub:type="ordinal">1</h3>
					<p epub:type="title">Appeals and Denunciations</p>
				</hgroup>
				<blockquote>
					<header role="presentation">
						<p>Appeal to all Citizens and to the Military Organisations of the Socialist Revolutionary Party.</p>
					</header>
					<p>“The senseless attempt of the Bolsheviki is on the eve of complete failure. The garrison is disaffected.⁠ ⁠… The Ministries are idle, bread is lacking. All factions except a handful of Bolsheviki have left the Congress of Soviets. The Bolsheviki are alone! Abuses of all sorts, acts of vandalism and pillage, the bombardment of the Winter Palace, arbitrary arrests⁠—all these crimes committed by the Bolsheviki have aroused against them the resentment of the majority of the sailors and soldiers. The <i>Tsentroflot</i> refuses to submit to the orders of the Bolsheviki.⁠ ⁠…</p>
					<p>“We call upon all sane elements to gather around the Committee for Salvation of Country and Revolution; to take serious measures to be ready, at the first call of the Central Committee of the Party, to act against the counter-revolutionists, who will doubtless attempt to profit by these troubles provoked by the Bolshevik adventure, and to watch closely the external enemy, who also would like to take advantage of this opportune moment when the Front is weakened.⁠ ⁠…”</p>
					<footer role="presentation">
						<p>The Military Section of the Central Committee of the Socialist Revolutionary Party.</p>
					</footer>
				</blockquote>
				<p>From <i epub:type="se:name.publication.newspaper">Pravda</i>:</p>
				<blockquote>
					<p>“What is Kerensky?</p>
					<p>“A usurper, whose place is in Peter-Paul prison, with Kornilov and Kishkin.</p>
					<p>“A criminal and a traitor to the workers, soldiers and peasants, who believed in him.</p>
					<p>“Kerensky? A murderer of soldiers!</p>
					<p>“Kerensky? A public executioner of peasants!</p>
					<p>“Kerensky? A strangler of workers!</p>
					<p>“Such is the second Kornilov who now wants to butcher Liberty!”</p>
				</blockquote>
			</section>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
